there was a time when there were many
different vegan news and commentary
YouTube channels who might respond to a
story such as the one I uploaded I think
less than 12 hours ago but today there
are fewer and fewer one of the very few
remaining is a guy named vegan foot
soldier and he means well but in his
response he is both incorrect in terms
of the data he presents and he's also
very misleading in terms of the
conclusions he draws and the
generalizations that he speaks in terms
of so one of his prominent examples in
his response to my video or I might say
his rebuttal is that he suggests that
you know well it's true that the total
number of viewers represented by
channels like freelee and durianrider
and vegan gains it's true that the
examples I use show a dramatic decline
in the order of more than 10 million
more than 10 million viewers leaving
this genre or leaving this ecosystem but
he suggests to you optimistically there
are other YouTube channels that are
really successful and that are really
growing during the same period of time
and his main example is fully raw
Christina so this is false in terms of
the specific data being invoked and it's
also misleading in terms of the
conclusions or generalizations he comes
to the YouTube channel for fully raw
Christina does not contradict my
hypothesis her channel affirms it it's a
further example of the same phenomenon
in October of 2016 you can see she had
2.6 million views per month and that has
declined dramatically to about zero
point six million at present now my
thesis is not that that just reflects
her personal artistic failure or her
personal creative failure I think it
reflects an overall decline in the
number of viewers in this genre in this
category an overall decline of interest
which is consistent with what the Google
trend data shows the numerous other
direct and indirect signs we all have
that we've had at least one year of
serious decline now a comparison here
would be between someone who claims
well every year there were a few rock
stars and there were a few dancehall
artists and a few rap artists in many
different genres of music sometimes one
musician is famous and popularised owns
another as and you can't generalize
about the decline of a genre of music
just on the basis of individual success
well that is true but you can look at
trend data that really shows you that
yes by 2017 as this article says the
statistics are really clear that the
whole genre the whole category of guitar
based music the whole category of
rock-and-roll music really has declined
in other genres like hip-hop music had
become more popular so we're not just
talking about the fact that today it's
less popular for people to look at fully
rock Christina and more popular for
people to look at Mattie limb burner
here or comparing freely to someone else
when you look at the total numbers even
if you look at the numbers of those
specific channels a decline of 12
million people with Frehley would not be
compensated for by an increase of 2
million with Faliro Christina but in
fact as I've just shown fully raw
Christina is also not increasing she is
decreasing most likely because she is
exactly struggling to succeed in the
same genre in the same ecosystem in a
situation where the total level of
interest in vegan content has declined
now this is not the only sense in which
the data he presents is misleading and
false footsoldiers comparison the stock
market is false for many reasons number
one we're not talking about the
cumulative increase in the value of an
investment or an asset or a stock number
two the actual jerk he shows is wildly
irrelevant he talks are quite a long
time about Bitcoin values it's totally
irrelevant to the situation and then the
actual chart he does show from Google
Trends data about the the word veganism
he's generated this incorrectly you
cannot have Google Trends set to world
you must set it to an english-speaking
country such as the United States of
America Canada or is going to show you
in a moment
England now here again this is basically
the same chart you saw on my channel
before this is the data for the United
States of America over five years
even if everything footsoldiers said
were true and accurate which it is not
he sits what much of what he says is
false but even if it were true
inaccurate a two-year period of decline
would not be insignificant we'd still be
able to look at this period of five
years and say well within this five year
puréed you had three years of increase
and then two years of declined that can
be something significant and I set out
all the reasons whether it is declining
interest in veganism so here's the
United States over five years and here's
the United States over ten years this is
not a cumulative value it's not the case
that I'm earning dividends year after
year from buying something in the stock
market over five years in the United
States again you see that recent decline
and on the ten-year chart it looks even
more recent and more sharp now you
cannot generate data for the whole world
from this interface because the whole
world contains India and China and parts
of Europe where they don't speak English
if you want to use Google Trends data or
the different word tracking data that
Google generates it is very language
specific it's very sensitive to the
language so you cannot do a world based
search for veganism and treat that as
meaningful human data which is what he
did I think that's just an error on his
part he just didn't think about it that
oh if I'm including India and China and
a lot of other places we're basically
gonna be masking the trend and showing a
kind of meaningless chart but guess
where else they speak English here is
jolly old England and look at that
ten-year trend so between 2009 and 2017
a big big increase in interest but now a
very sharp trend just recently in 2019
this is much more dramatic looking at
the chart for England than looking at
the chart for the United States now look
guys I am NOT opposed to optimism I
think it's great to look at the data and
say we can overcome this we can do
better but I already said my argument
very clearly in the video I already made
if your idea of the future of veganism
is the
we're gonna have a best-selling book
year after year after year if your idea
of the future of veganism is that we're
gonna have a hit documentary movie year
after year after year and that that's
going to be sustainable or that's going
to continue to grow I think that is
unrealistic and silly it's not a
meaningful basis for for optimism of the
future of the movement now the other
thing I was trying to emphasize is
precisely the point that footsoldier
chooses to miss in the conclusion of his
video that investing in the development
of packaged products is very very
different from people investing their
time and their money in real world
activism on a charitable basis on a
level of political organizations
lobbying for government change you you
cannot look at this as a stock market
statistic you have to look at this
ultimately we're looking at the market
for people getting involved in
self-sacrificing and altruistic action
we're not looking at the return on
investment for producing new packaged
products
[Music]